README.md, before:

# DevFlow

A powerful command-line interface tool for streamlining development workflows with Jira and Bitbucket. Perfect for developers who want to manage tasks and repositories from the terminal.

## ✨ Features

### Jira Integration
- 📋 **List Tasks** - View your assigned Jira issues with filtering and sorting
- 🔍 **Show Details** - Get comprehensive information about specific issues
- 💬 **Find Mentions** - Discover issues where you're mentioned in comments
- ➕ **Create Tasks** - Quickly create new Jira issues
- 🎯 **Priority & Status** - Visual indicators for issue priority and status
- 📊 **Advanced Filtering** - Filter by status, exclude done tasks, sort by priority
- 🔗 **Direct Links** - Clickable URLs to open issues in your browser

### Bitbucket Integration ✅
- 📝 **List Pull Requests** - View pull requests in your repositories
- ➕ **Create Pull Requests** - Create new pull requests from the command line
- 🔐 **API Token Authentication** - Secure authentication with Bitbucket API tokens
- 📊 **Repository Management** - Manage your Bitbucket repositories
- 🔗 **Direct Links** - Clickable URLs to open pull requests in your browser

### Configuration Management
- 🔐 **Secure Storage** - API tokens stored securely in your home directory
- ⚙️ **Easy Setup** - Simple configuration commands
- 🔄 **Persistent Config** - Settings persist between CLI sessions

### Developer Experience
- 🚀 **Cross-platform** - Single binary for easy distribution
- 🎨 **Rich Output** - Colorful, visual status and priority indicators
- 📖 **Comprehensive Help** - Detailed help for all commands
- 🧪 **Well Tested** - Unit tests included

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd devflow

# Install to your Go bin directory (recommended)
make install

# Ensure ~/go/bin is in your PATH (add to ~/.bashrc if needed)
export PATH="$HOME/go/bin:$PATH"
```

**Note:** `make install` installs the binary to `~/go/bin/devflow` with the latest release version embedded. For development or custom builds, see the Development section below.

### 2. Configuration

Set up your API credentials:

```bash
# Jira configuration
./devflow config set jira.url https://your-domain.atlassian.net
./devflow config set jira.username your-email@example.com
./devflow config set jira.token your-jira-api-token

# Bitbucket configuration (optional)
./devflow config set bitbucket.workspace your-workspace
./devflow config set bitbucket.username your-username
./devflow config set bitbucket.token your-bitbucket-api-token
```

### 3. Get Your API Tokens

#### Jira API Token
1. Go to [Atlassian Account Settings](https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens)
2. Create a new API token
3. Copy the token value
4. Use with: `./devflow config set jira.token YOUR_JIRA_TOKEN`

#### Bitbucket API Token
**⚠️ Important:** Bitbucket now uses API tokens instead of app passwords. These are DIFFERENT from Jira tokens!

1. Go to [Bitbucket Settings > API tokens](https://bitbucket.org/account/settings/api-tokens)
2. Click "Create API token"
3. Give it a name (e.g., "CLI Tool")
4. Select these scopes:
   - ✅ **Pull requests**: Read
   - ✅ **Repositories**: Read
   - ✅ **Webhooks**: Read and write (if needed)
5. Click "Create"
6. **📋 COPY the generated API token immediately** (shown only once!)
7. Use with: `./devflow config set bitbucket.token YOUR_BITBUCKET_API_TOKEN`

**🔍 Token Format Difference:**
- **Jira tokens:** Start with `ATATT3x...` (Atlassian format)
- **Bitbucket API tokens:** Generated from API tokens page
- **Both use:** Bearer authentication

**❗ Common Mistake:** Don't use a Jira token for Bitbucket - they are completely different!

**📅 Migration Note:** App passwords were deprecated on September 9, 2025. All existing app passwords will be disabled on June 9, 2026.

## 📖 Usage Guide

### Jira Commands

#### List Your Tasks
```bash
# Basic list of your assigned tasks (includes direct links)
./devflow jira list
# Output includes 🔗 https://your-domain.atlassian.net/browse/ISSUE-KEY

# Focus on active work (exclude completed tasks)
./devflow jira list --exclude-done

# Show priority information
./devflow jira list --exclude-done --priority

# Filter by specific status
./devflow jira list --filter "In Progress"

# Sort by priority (highest first)
./devflow jira list --exclude-done --sort priority --priority

# Combine multiple options
./devflow jira list --exclude-done --sort priority --priority
```

#### Show Issue Details
```bash
# Get comprehensive details about a specific issue
./devflow jira show ISSUE-123

# Example output includes:
# - Issue summary and key
# - Status with icon
# - Priority with icon
# - Assignee and reporter
# - Created and updated dates
# - Full description
# - All comments with timestamps
# - Attachments with file sizes
```

#### Find Mentions
```bash
# Find all issues where you're mentioned
./devflow jira mentioned

# Searches through:
# - Comments (@username mentions)
# - Issue descriptions
# - All text fields
```

#### Create New Tasks
```bash
# Create a new Jira task
./devflow jira create "Fix login bug"

# Note: Requires project key configuration
```

### Bitbucket Commands

```bash
# List pull requests (includes direct links)
./devflow bitbucket list-prs --repo your-repo-name
# Output includes 🔗 https://bitbucket.org/workspace/repo/pull-requests/ID

# Create a pull request
./devflow bitbucket create-pr "Feature implementation" --repo your-repo-name --source feature-branch --dest main

# Test authentication
./devflow bitbucket test-auth
```

### Configuration Commands

```bash
# Set configuration values
./devflow config set jira.url https://your-domain.atlassian.net
./devflow config set jira.username your-email@example.com
./devflow config set jira.token your-api-token

# Get configuration values
./devflow config get jira.url
./devflow config get jira.username

# View all configuration
cat ~/.devflow/config.json
```

## 🎨 Visual Indicators

### Status Icons
- 📋 **To Do / Open** - Ready to work
- 🔄 **In Progress / In Review** - Currently working
- ✅ **Done / Closed / Resolved** - Completed
- 📚 **Backlog** - Planned for future
- 🚫 **Blocked / Waiting** - Cannot proceed
- 🔍 **Under investigation** - Research needed
- 📏 **Scoping** - Estimating work
- ❌ **Cancelled** - No longer needed
- 📝 **Default** - Other statuses

### Priority Icons
- 🔴 **Highest** - Critical priority
- 🟠 **High** - Important priority
- 🟡 **Medium** - Normal priority
- 🟢 **Low** - Low priority
- 🔵 **Lowest** - Minimal priority
- ⚪ **Default** - No priority set

## 🔧 Development

### Prerequisites
- Go 1.19 or later
- Git

### Setup Development Environment
```bash
# Install dependencies
go mod tidy

# Run tests
go test ./...

# Run specific tests
go test ./internal/config/

# Build for current platform
go build -o devflow

# Build for multiple platforms
make build-all

# Run linter
golangci-lint run
```

### Project Structure
```
devflow/
├── cmd/                        # CLI commands using Cobra framework
│   ├── root.go                 # Root command
│   ├── jira.go                 # Jira command group
│   ├── jira_list.go            # List Jira tasks with filtering
│   ├── jira_show.go            # Show detailed issue information
│   ├── jira_mentioned.go       # Find mentions
│   ├── jira_create.go          # Create new tasks
│   ├── bitbucket.go            # Bitbucket command group
│   ├── bitbucket_list.go       # List pull requests
│   ├── bitbucket_create.go     # Create pull requests
│   ├── config.go               # Config command group
│   ├── config_set.go           # Set configuration
│   ├── config_get.go           # Get configuration
│   └── jira_list.go            # List command with advanced features
├── internal/                   # Private application code
│   ├── jira/                   # Jira REST API client
│   │   └── client.go           # Jira API integration
│   ├── bitbucket/              # Bitbucket REST API client
│   │   └── client.go           # Bitbucket API integration
│   └── config/                 # Configuration management
│       ├── config.go           # Config file handling
│       └── config_test.go      # Unit tests
├── pkg/                       # Public packages (future use)
├── scripts/                   # Build and deployment scripts
├── docs/                      # Documentation
├── main.go                    # Application entry point
├── go.mod                     # Go module file
├── go.sum                     # Dependency checksums
├── Makefile                   # Build automation
├── README.md                  # This file
└── .gitignore                 # Git ignore rules
```

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### "API request failed with status: 400"
- Check your Jira URL - it should be `https://your-domain.atlassian.net` (without `/jira`)
- Verify your API token is correct
- Ensure your username is your email address

#### "API request failed with status: 401"
- Your API token may be expired or incorrect
- Check that you're using the correct token type (Jira API token, not Bitbucket)

#### "API request failed with status: 410"
- The API endpoint has changed - the CLI automatically handles this

#### Configuration not found
- Run the configuration commands again
- Check that `~/.devflow/config.json` exists

### Debug Mode
```bash
# Enable verbose output (future feature)
./devflow --verbose jira list
```

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/your-feature`
3. Make your changes and add tests
4. Run tests: `go test ./...`
5. Submit a pull request

### Code Style
- Follow Go conventions
- Add tests for new features
- Update documentation
- Use meaningful commit messages

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built with [Cobra](https://github.com/spf13/cobra) CLI framework
- Uses Go's standard HTTP client for API calls
- Inspired by the need for efficient terminal-based workflow management

---

**Happy coding! 🚀**

For issues, questions, or contributions, please create an issue on GitHub.

Commit message:

docs: Add development session summaries infrastructure
- Create docs/sessions/ directory with README and template
- Add comprehensive retroactive session summary for initial implementation
- Document DevFlow-specific considerations (Jira/Bitbucket APIs, CLI design)
- Update main README with development section referencing session summaries
- Provide template optimized for CLI tool development with API integrations

This establishes context continuity for future development sessions and captures
the evolution of the DevFlow CLI tool including API integrations, authentication
flows, and user experience decisions.

README.md, after:

# DevFlow

A powerful command-line interface tool for streamlining development workflows with Jira and Bitbucket. Perfect for developers who want to manage tasks and repositories from the terminal.

## ✨ Features

### Jira Integration
- 📋 **List Tasks** - View your assigned Jira issues with filtering and sorting
- 🔍 **Show Details** - Get comprehensive information about specific issues
- 💬 **Find Mentions** - Discover issues where you're mentioned in comments
- ➕ **Create Tasks** - Quickly create new Jira issues
- 🎯 **Priority & Status** - Visual indicators for issue priority and status
- 📊 **Advanced Filtering** - Filter by status, exclude done tasks, sort by priority
- 🔗 **Direct Links** - Clickable URLs to open issues in your browser

### Bitbucket Integration ✅
- 📝 **List Pull Requests** - View pull requests in your repositories
- ➕ **Create Pull Requests** - Create new pull requests from the command line
- 🔐 **API Token Authentication** - Secure authentication with Bitbucket API tokens
- 📊 **Repository Management** - Manage your Bitbucket repositories
- 🔗 **Direct Links** - Clickable URLs to open pull requests in your browser

### Configuration Management
- 🔐 **Secure Storage** - API tokens stored securely in your home directory
- ⚙️ **Easy Setup** - Simple configuration commands
- 🔄 **Persistent Config** - Settings persist between CLI sessions

### Developer Experience
- 🚀 **Cross-platform** - Single binary for easy distribution
- 🎨 **Rich Output** - Colorful, visual status and priority indicators
- 📖 **Comprehensive Help** - Detailed help for all commands
- 🧪 **Well Tested** - Unit tests included

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd devflow

# Install to your Go bin directory (recommended)
make install

# Ensure ~/go/bin is in your PATH (add to ~/.bashrc if needed)
export PATH="$HOME/go/bin:$PATH"
```

**Note:** `make install` installs the binary to `~/go/bin/devflow` with the latest release version embedded. For development or custom builds, see the Development section below.

### 2. Configuration

Set up your API credentials:

```bash
# Jira configuration
./devflow config set jira.url https://your-domain.atlassian.net
./devflow config set jira.username your-email@example.com
./devflow config set jira.token your-jira-api-token

# Bitbucket configuration (optional)
./devflow config set bitbucket.workspace your-workspace
./devflow config set bitbucket.username your-username
./devflow config set bitbucket.token your-bitbucket-api-token
```

### 3. Get Your API Tokens

#### Jira API Token
1. Go to [Atlassian Account Settings](https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens)
2. Create a new API token
3. Copy the token value
4. Use with: `./devflow config set jira.token YOUR_JIRA_TOKEN`

#### Bitbucket API Token
**⚠️ Important:** Bitbucket now uses API tokens instead of app passwords. These are DIFFERENT from Jira tokens!

1. Go to [Bitbucket Settings > API tokens](https://bitbucket.org/account/settings/api-tokens)
2. Click "Create API token"
3. Give it a name (e.g., "CLI Tool")
4. Select these scopes:
   - ✅ **Pull requests**: Read
   - ✅ **Repositories**: Read
   - ✅ **Webhooks**: Read and write (if needed)
5. Click "Create"
6. **📋 COPY the generated API token immediately** (shown only once!)
7. Use with: `./devflow config set bitbucket.token YOUR_BITBUCKET_API_TOKEN`

**🔍 Token Format Difference:**
- **Jira tokens:** Start with `ATATT3x...` (Atlassian format)
- **Bitbucket API tokens:** Generated from API tokens page
- **Both use:** Bearer authentication

**❗ Common Mistake:** Don't use a Jira token for Bitbucket - they are completely different!

**📅 Migration Note:** App passwords were deprecated on September 9, 2025. All existing app passwords will be disabled on June 9, 2026.

## 📖 Usage Guide

### Jira Commands

#### List Your Tasks
```bash
# Basic list of your assigned tasks (includes direct links)
./devflow jira list
# Output includes 🔗 https://your-domain.atlassian.net/browse/ISSUE-KEY

# Focus on active work (exclude completed tasks)
./devflow jira list --exclude-done

# Show priority information
./devflow jira list --exclude-done --priority

# Filter by specific status
./devflow jira list --filter "In Progress"

# Sort by priority (highest first)
./devflow jira list --exclude-done --sort priority --priority

# Combine multiple options
./devflow jira list --exclude-done --sort priority --priority
```

#### Show Issue Details
```bash
# Get comprehensive details about a specific issue
./devflow jira show ISSUE-123

# Example output includes:
# - Issue summary and key
# - Status with icon
# - Priority with icon
# - Assignee and reporter
# - Created and updated dates
# - Full description
# - All comments with timestamps
# - Attachments with file sizes
```

#### Find Mentions
```bash
# Find all issues where you're mentioned
./devflow jira mentioned

# Searches through:
# - Comments (@username mentions)
# - Issue descriptions
# - All text fields
```

#### Create New Tasks
```bash
# Create a new Jira task
./devflow jira create "Fix login bug"

# Note: Requires project key configuration
```

### Bitbucket Commands

```bash
# List pull requests (includes direct links)
./devflow bitbucket list-prs --repo your-repo-name
# Output includes 🔗 https://bitbucket.org/workspace/repo/pull-requests/ID

# Create a pull request
./devflow bitbucket create-pr "Feature implementation" --repo your-repo-name --source feature-branch --dest main

# Test authentication
./devflow bitbucket test-auth
```

### Configuration Commands

```bash
# Set configuration values
./devflow config set jira.url https://your-domain.atlassian.net
./devflow config set jira.username your-email@example.com
./devflow config set jira.token your-api-token

# Get configuration values
./devflow config get jira.url
./devflow config get jira.username

# View all configuration
cat ~/.devflow/config.json
```

## 🎨 Visual Indicators

### Status Icons
- 📋 **To Do / Open** - Ready to work
- 🔄 **In Progress / In Review** - Currently working
- ✅ **Done / Closed / Resolved** - Completed
- 📚 **Backlog** - Planned for future
- 🚫 **Blocked / Waiting** - Cannot proceed
- 🔍 **Under investigation** - Research needed
- 📏 **Scoping** - Estimating work
- ❌ **Cancelled** - No longer needed
- 📝 **Default** - Other statuses

### Priority Icons
- 🔴 **Highest** - Critical priority
- 🟠 **High** - Important priority
- 🟡 **Medium** - Normal priority
- 🟢 **Low** - Low priority
- 🔵 **Lowest** - Minimal priority
- ⚪ **Default** - No priority set

## 🔧 Development

### Prerequisites
- Go 1.19 or later
- Git

### Setup Development Environment
```bash
# Install dependencies
go mod tidy

# Run tests
go test ./...

# Run specific tests
go test ./internal/config/

# Build for current platform
go build -o devflow

# Build for multiple platforms
make build-all

# Run linter
golangci-lint run
```

### Project Structure
```
devflow/
├── cmd/                        # CLI commands using Cobra framework
│   ├── root.go                 # Root command
│   ├── jira.go                 # Jira command group
│   ├── jira_list.go            # List Jira tasks with filtering
│   ├── jira_show.go            # Show detailed issue information
│   ├── jira_mentioned.go       # Find mentions
│   ├── jira_create.go          # Create new tasks
│   ├── bitbucket.go            # Bitbucket command group
│   ├── bitbucket_list.go       # List pull requests
│   ├── bitbucket_create.go     # Create pull requests
│   ├── config.go               # Config command group
│   ├── config_set.go           # Set configuration
│   ├── config_get.go           # Get configuration
│   └── jira_list.go            # List command with advanced features
├── internal/                   # Private application code
│   ├── jira/                   # Jira REST API client
│   │   └── client.go           # Jira API integration
│   ├── bitbucket/              # Bitbucket REST API client
│   │   └── client.go           # Bitbucket API integration
│   └── config/                 # Configuration management
│       ├── config.go           # Config file handling
│       └── config_test.go      # Unit tests
├── pkg/                       # Public packages (future use)
├── scripts/                   # Build and deployment scripts
├── docs/                      # Documentation
├── main.go                    # Application entry point
├── go.mod                     # Go module file
├── go.sum                     # Dependency checksums
├── Makefile                   # Build automation
├── README.md                  # This file
└── .gitignore                 # Git ignore rules
```

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### "API request failed with status: 400"
- Check your Jira URL - it should be `https://your-domain.atlassian.net` (without `/jira`)
- Verify your API token is correct
- Ensure your username is your email address

#### "API request failed with status: 401"
- Your API token may be expired or incorrect
- Check that you're using the correct token type (Jira API token, not Bitbucket)

#### "API request failed with status: 410"
- The API endpoint has changed - the CLI automatically handles this

#### Configuration not found
- Run the configuration commands again
- Check that `~/.devflow/config.json` exists

### Debug Mode
```bash
# Enable verbose output (future feature)
./devflow --verbose jira list
```

## 🛠️ Development

### Session Summaries

Development session summaries are maintained in [`docs/sessions/`](docs/sessions/) to provide context continuity between development sessions. These summaries document:

- Feature implementation details and architectural decisions
- API integration patterns and authentication flows
- CLI design choices and user experience considerations
- Key technical insights and lessons learned  
- Implementation approach and rationale
- Files modified and their purposes
- Test coverage and validation approach

This helps maintain context for future development work and provides valuable historical information about the project's evolution, especially important for a tool that integrates with multiple external APIs.

### Contributing

When contributing to this project:
1. Follow the existing code structure and patterns
2. Add comprehensive tests for new features
3. Update documentation (README, session summaries)
4. Use the session summary template for significant changes
5. Consider API rate limiting and error handling
6. Test with both Jira and Bitbucket integrations

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/your-feature`
3. Make your changes and add tests
4. Run tests: `go test ./...`
5. Submit a pull request

### Code Style
- Follow Go conventions
- Add tests for new features
- Update documentation
- Use meaningful commit messages

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built with [Cobra](https://github.com/spf13/cobra) CLI framework
- Uses Go's standard HTTP client for API calls
- Inspired by the need for efficient terminal-based workflow management

---

**Happy coding! 🚀**

For issues, questions, or contributions, please create an issue on GitHub.
