docs/sessions/2025-10-17-pr-enhancements.md, before:

# Session: Bitbucket PR Enhancements
**Date**: 2025-10-17
**Duration**: ~1 hour
**Participants**: solo

## Objectives
- Extend pull request creation to support description text
- Allow specifying multiple reviewers
- Auto-detect source (current git branch) and destination (repository main) branches
- Surface PR HTML link and optionally open in browser
- Bump version to v1.3.0 and document changes

## Key Decisions
- Use `git rev-parse --abbrev-ref HEAD` for lightweight current branch detection (fallback to `develop` when detached or failing)
- Query repository via new `GetRepositoryMainBranch` Bitbucket API call to detect main branch (fallback `main`)
- Include reviewers by sending `reviewers` array of `{username}` objects only when non-empty and trimmed
- Add `Links.HTML.Href` field to `PullRequest` struct to expose URL directly in output
- Keep CLI flag names concise: `-m/--description`, `-R/--reviewer`, `-o/--open`

## Implementation Summary
Added new method to Bitbucket client for repository info and augmented existing PR creation to accept description and reviewers. Updated CLI command to handle new flags, auto-detection logic, and optional browser open via `xdg-open`. Bumped version constant to released `v1.3.0` and updated README documentation for new capabilities.

## Technical Details

### New Components
- **GetRepositoryMainBranch**: Retrieves repository metadata and extracts the `mainbranch.name` value for destination branch defaulting.

### Modified Components
- **PullRequest struct**: Added `Description` and nested `Links.HTML.Href` fields.
- **CreatePullRequest**: Signature now includes description and reviewers slice; builds request body conditionally.
- **bitbucket_create command**: Added flags and branch detection helper; outputs richer PR info.
- **version command**: Updated version constant to `v1.3.0`.

## Files Modified/Created
- `cmd/bitbucket_create.go` - Added flags, branch detection, enhanced output.
- `internal/bitbucket/client.go` - Added main branch lookup, description/link fields, reviewers support.
- `cmd/version.go` - Set released version.
- `docs/sessions/2025-10-17-pr-enhancements.md` - This session summary.
- `README.md` - Documented new PR creation features and updated example.

## CLI Commands Added/Modified
### Modified Commands
```bash
# Pull request creation now supports description, reviewers, auto branches, and open flag
devflow pullrequest create "Title" --repo repo-slug \
  -m "PR description" -R reviewer1 -R reviewer2 --open
```

## Configuration Changes
No configuration schema changes; existing `bitbucket` config used for workspace, username, token.

## API Integration Details
### Bitbucket APIs Used
- **Endpoint**: `/2.0/repositories/{workspace}/{repo_slug}` - Fetch repository to obtain main branch name.
- **Endpoint**: `/2.0/repositories/{workspace}/{repo_slug}/pullrequests` - Create pull request with extended payload.
- **Authentication**: Basic or Bearer based on presence of `bitbucket.username` (unchanged logic).

## Tests Added
None in this session (follow-up opportunity: unit test for `GetRepositoryMainBranch` using mock HTTP).

## Documentation Updates
- README Bitbucket features bullet expanded for creation enhancements.
- README usage example updated to demonstrate new flags.
- Added this session summary file.

## User Experience Improvements
- Reduced manual branch flag entry via auto-detect logic.
- Immediate access to PR URL and optional browser launch.
- Clear reviewer list display and optional description output.

## Security Considerations
- No additional token scopes required beyond existing PR create & repo read.
- Browser open uses `xdg-open` without user-supplied URL manipulation (server-provided link).

## Lessons Learned
- Bitbucket repository API reliably returns `mainbranch.name`; fallback still needed for repos missing field.
- Simple branch detection via `git rev-parse` adequate; more complex cases (worktrees, symbolic refs) not yet handled.

## Known Issues/TODOs
- Add tests for `GetRepositoryMainBranch` and `CreatePullRequest` (mocking HTTP).
- Consider supporting specifying destination reviewers by account ID vs username if needed.
- Enhance branch detection for detached HEAD states with underlying ref resolution.

## Next Steps
- Implement tests for new Bitbucket client methods.
- Add flag for draft PR creation if Bitbucket API supports it.
- Support updating existing PRs (edit command) for reviewers/description.

## Follow-up Enhancement (2025-10-21)
Added `pullrequest builds` command to surface per-commit build/status checks.

### API Endpoints Utilized
- `/2.0/repositories/{workspace}/{repo_slug}/pullrequests/{pr_id}/commits` to enumerate commits
- `/2.0/repositories/{workspace}/{repo_slug}/commit/{commit_hash}/statuses` to retrieve statuses

### Data Structures Added
- `Commit` (hash, message, author raw, date)
- `CommitStatus` (state, key, name, url, description, updated_on)

### CLI Behavior
- Fetches all PR commits then iterates, querying statuses per commit
- Displays concise per-status lines with icon, state, name/key, description first line, link, and relative age
- Provides state icon mapping for SUCCESSFUL, FAILED/ERROR, INPROGRESS/PENDING, STOPPED/CANCELLED, default fallback

### Performance Considerations
- Sequential per-commit status requests; acceptable for typical PR sizes (<20 commits). Future optimization: batch or concurrency with rate limit awareness.

### Future Improvements
- Add JSON output flag for scripting CI verification
- Collapse identical status keys across multiple commits (summary mode)
- Support filtering by state (e.g. show only FAILED)

## Related Commits
- `fa44ace`: feat(bitbucket): enhance PR creation (description, reviewers, branch auto-detect, open flag, link output); bump version v1.3.0

---

## Notes
Auto branch detection improves ergonomics for frequent feature branch usage; documentation updated to encourage richer PR metadata at creation time.

Commit message:

feat(bitbucket): add pullrequest set-status command with client support, tests, and docs

docs/sessions/2025-10-17-pr-enhancements.md, after:

# Session: Bitbucket PR Enhancements
**Date**: 2025-10-17
**Duration**: ~1 hour
**Participants**: solo

## Objectives
- Extend pull request creation to support description text
- Allow specifying multiple reviewers
- Auto-detect source (current git branch) and destination (repository main) branches
- Surface PR HTML link and optionally open in browser
- Bump version to v1.3.0 and document changes

## Key Decisions
- Use `git rev-parse --abbrev-ref HEAD` for lightweight current branch detection (fallback to `develop` when detached or failing)
- Query repository via new `GetRepositoryMainBranch` Bitbucket API call to detect main branch (fallback `main`)
- Include reviewers by sending `reviewers` array of `{username}` objects only when non-empty and trimmed
- Add `Links.HTML.Href` field to `PullRequest` struct to expose URL directly in output
- Keep CLI flag names concise: `-m/--description`, `-R/--reviewer`, `-o/--open`

## Implementation Summary
Added new method to Bitbucket client for repository info and augmented existing PR creation to accept description and reviewers. Updated CLI command to handle new flags, auto-detection logic, and optional browser open via `xdg-open`. Bumped version constant to released `v1.3.0` and updated README documentation for new capabilities.

## Technical Details

### New Components
- **GetRepositoryMainBranch**: Retrieves repository metadata and extracts the `mainbranch.name` value for destination branch defaulting.

### Modified Components
- **PullRequest struct**: Added `Description` and nested `Links.HTML.Href` fields.
- **CreatePullRequest**: Signature now includes description and reviewers slice; builds request body conditionally.
- **bitbucket_create command**: Added flags and branch detection helper; outputs richer PR info.
- **version command**: Updated version constant to `v1.3.0`.

## Files Modified/Created
- `cmd/bitbucket_create.go` - Added flags, branch detection, enhanced output.
- `internal/bitbucket/client.go` - Added main branch lookup, description/link fields, reviewers support.
- `cmd/version.go` - Set released version.
- `docs/sessions/2025-10-17-pr-enhancements.md` - This session summary.
- `README.md` - Documented new PR creation features and updated example.

## CLI Commands Added/Modified
### Modified Commands
```bash
# Pull request creation now supports description, reviewers, auto branches, and open flag
devflow pullrequest create "Title" --repo repo-slug \
  -m "PR description" -R reviewer1 -R reviewer2 --open
```

## Configuration Changes
No configuration schema changes; existing `bitbucket` config used for workspace, username, token.

## API Integration Details
### Bitbucket APIs Used
- **Endpoint**: `/2.0/repositories/{workspace}/{repo_slug}` - Fetch repository to obtain main branch name.
- **Endpoint**: `/2.0/repositories/{workspace}/{repo_slug}/pullrequests` - Create pull request with extended payload.
- **Authentication**: Basic or Bearer based on presence of `bitbucket.username` (unchanged logic).

## Tests Added
None in this session (follow-up opportunity: unit test for `GetRepositoryMainBranch` using mock HTTP).

## Documentation Updates
- README Bitbucket features bullet expanded for creation enhancements.
- README usage example updated to demonstrate new flags.
- Added this session summary file.

## User Experience Improvements
- Reduced manual branch flag entry via auto-detect logic.
- Immediate access to PR URL and optional browser launch.
- Clear reviewer list display and optional description output.

## Security Considerations
- No additional token scopes required beyond existing PR create & repo read.
- Browser open uses `xdg-open` without user-supplied URL manipulation (server-provided link).

## Lessons Learned
- Bitbucket repository API reliably returns `mainbranch.name`; fallback still needed for repos missing field.
- Simple branch detection via `git rev-parse` adequate; more complex cases (worktrees, symbolic refs) not yet handled.

## Known Issues/TODOs
- Add tests for `GetRepositoryMainBranch` and `CreatePullRequest` (mocking HTTP).
- Consider supporting specifying destination reviewers by account ID vs username if needed.
- Enhance branch detection for detached HEAD states with underlying ref resolution.

## Next Steps
- Implement tests for new Bitbucket client methods.
- Add flag for draft PR creation if Bitbucket API supports it.
- Support updating existing PRs (edit command) for reviewers/description.

## Follow-up Enhancement (2025-10-21)
Added `pullrequest builds` command to surface per-commit build/status checks.

### Follow-up Enhancement (2025-10-21, later)
Implemented `pullrequest set-status` command enabling creation or update of commit build/status entries directly from the CLI (Bitbucket upserts on identical key). Includes input validation (state allowlist, key length, URL parsing) and user-friendly output with icons and relative timestamps.

### API Endpoints Utilized
- `/2.0/repositories/{workspace}/{repo_slug}/pullrequests/{pr_id}/commits` to enumerate commits
- `/2.0/repositories/{workspace}/{repo_slug}/commit/{commit_hash}/statuses` to retrieve statuses

### Data Structures Added
- `Commit` (hash, message, author raw, date)
- `CommitStatus` (state, key, name, url, description, updated_on)

### CLI Behavior
- Fetches all PR commits then iterates, querying statuses per commit
- Displays concise per-status lines with icon, state, name/key, description first line, link, and relative age
- Provides state icon mapping for SUCCESSFUL, FAILED/ERROR, INPROGRESS/PENDING, STOPPED/CANCELLED, default fallback

### Performance Considerations
- Sequential per-commit status requests; acceptable for typical PR sizes (<20 commits). Future optimization: batch or concurrency with rate limit awareness.

### Future Improvements
- Add JSON output flag for scripting CI verification
- Collapse identical status keys across multiple commits (summary mode)
- Support filtering by state (e.g. show only FAILED)

## Related Commits
- `fa44ace`: feat(bitbucket): enhance PR creation (description, reviewers, branch auto-detect, open flag, link output); bump version v1.3.0

---

## Notes
Auto branch detection improves ergonomics for frequent feature branch usage; documentation updated to encourage richer PR metadata at creation time.
